
  

---

  

  

title: AWS Security Speciality

  

  

tags: [AWS, Technology, Security, EN, Certification]

  

  

style:

  

  

color:

  

  

description: Different interesting information linked to AWS Security speciality scope.

  

  

---

  

  

  

# AWS Certified Security - Specialty

  

  

  

## Description

  

  

The AWS Certified Security – Specialty (SCS-C01) examination is intended for individuals who perform a security role. The AWS Certified Security Specialty allows experienced cloud security professionals to demonstrate and validate their knowledge of how to secure the AWS platform.

  

  

  

## Duration

  

  

170 min

  

  

  

## Domain

  

  

  

|Domain|Percentage |

  

  

|--|--|

  

  

| Incident response | 12% |

  

  

| Logging and Monitoring | 20% |

  

  

| Infrastructure Security | 26% |

  

  

| Identity and Access Management | 20% |

  

  

| Data Protection | 22% |

  

  

  

# Links


-  [KMS FAQs](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/faqs/)

-  [Rotating Customer Master Keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html#rotate-keys-console)

-  [Grants Customer Master Keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/grants.html)

-  [ViaService Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/policy-conditions.html#conditions-kms-via-service)

-  [AWS Managed CMK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html#rotate-keys-console)

-  [Deleting keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/deleting-keys.html)

  
  
  

# KMS CMK

  

  

- You can choose to have AWS KMS automatically rotate CMKs every year, provided that those keys were generated by AWS KMS.

  

- With grants you can programmatically delegate the use of KMS customer master keys (CMKs) to other AWS principals. Grants are typically used to provide temporary permissions or more granular permissions.

  

- The kms:ViaService condition key can be used to limit the use of an AWS KMS customer master key (CMK) to requests from specified AWS services. You can specify one or more services in each kms:ViaService condition key

  

- You cannot enable or disable rotation of AWS managed keys. They are automatically rotated every three years. Manual rotation is not supported for AWS managed keys.

  

- Keys generated by AWS KMS are only stored and used in the region in which they were created. They cannot be transferred to another region.

  

- Deleting a customer master key (CMK) in AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is destructive and potentially dangerous. It deletes the key material and all metadata associated with the CMK and is irreversible. After a CMK is deleted, you can no longer decrypt the data that was encrypted under that CMK, which means that data becomes unrecoverable.

  

- The Condition element (or Condition block) lets you specify conditions for when a policy is in effect. The policy statement is effective only when the conditions are true. For example, you might want a policy statement to take effect only after a specific date. Or, you might want a policy statement to control access only when a specific value appears in an API request.

# VPC
[/assets/articles/vpc.png](VPC)

A nice interactive  [IP Address and CIDR range visualizer](https://cidr.xyz/)
